.TH pilot 1 "Version 1.1"
.SH Name
pilot \- simple file system browser in the style of the Pine Composer
.SH Syntax
.B pilot
[
.I options
] [
.I directory
]
.SH Description
\fIPilot\fR is a simple, display-oriented file system browser based on
the Pine message system composer.  As with Pine, commands are 
displayed at the bottom of the screen, and context-sensitive
help is provided.
.PP
\fIPilot\fR displays the current working directory at the top of the
screen.  The directory's contents are displayed in columns of file name,
file size pairs.  Names that are directories are indicated by the name
"(dir)" in place of the file size.  The parent of the current working
directory is indicated by the file name ".." and size of "(parent dir)".
File names that are symbolic links to other files are displayed with a
file size of "--".
.PP
Several basic file manipulation commands are provided: Delete, Rename,
Copy, View, Launch, and Edit.  The "View" and "Edit" commands operate on
text files only.  By default, the "View" command displays files
using "pine -F", but will respect the environment variable PAGER if set.
The "Edit" command simply invokes "pico".  The "Launch" command provides
a convenient way to either execute the selected file or to run an 
application on it.
.PP
More specific help is available in \fIpilot\fR's online help.
.SH Options
.IP \fB-a\fR
Display all files including those beginning with a period (.).
.IP \fB-f\fR
Use function keys for commands.  This option supported only in 
conjunction with UW Enhanced NCSA telnet.
.IP \fB-g\fR
Enable "Show Cursor" mode.  Cause cursor to be positioned
before the current selection rather than placed at the lower left of the
display.
.IP \fB-j\fR
Enable "Goto" command.  This enables the command to permit explicitly
telling \fIpilot\fR which directory to visit.
.IP \fB-m\fR
Enable mouse functionality.  This only works when \fIpilot\fR is run from
within an X Window System "xterm" window.
.IP \fB-n\fIn\fB\fR
The \-n\fIn\fR option enables new mail notification.  The \fIn\fR 
argument is optional, and specifies how often, in seconds, your 
mailbox is checked for new mail.  For example, \-n60 causes \fIpilot\fR 
to check for new mail once every minute.  The default interval is 180 
seconds, while the minimum allowed is 30. (Note: no space between "n" and 
the number) 
.IP \fB-o\ \fIdir\fB\fR
Sets operating directory.  Only files within the specified directory are
accessible and browsing is limited to the specified directory subtree.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable single vertical column display.
.IP \fB-x\fR
Disable keymenu at the bottom of the screen.
.IP \fB-z\fR
Enable ^Z suspension of \fIpilot\fR.
.IP \fB-q\fR
Termcap or terminfo definition for input escape sequences are used in
preference to sequences defined by default.  This option is only available
if \fIpilot\fR was compiled with the TERMCAP_WINS define turned on.
.IP \fB-setlocale_ctype\fR
Do setlocale(LC_CTYPE) if available. Default is to not do this setlocale.
.IP \fB-no_setlocale_collate\fR
Do not do setlocale(LC_COLLATE). Default is to do this setlocale.
.fi
.SH Authors
Michael Seibel <mikes@cac.washington.edu>
.br
Copyright 1994-2005 by the University of Washington.
.SH "See Also"
pine(1)
.br
Source distribution (part of the Pine Message System):
.br
   ftp://ftp.cac.washington.edu/mail/pine.tar.Z

$Date: 2005-01-14 12:44:47 -0800 (Fri, 14 Jan 2005) $
