.TH rpload 1
.SH NAME
rpload \- pine remote data utility
.SH SYNTAX 

.B rpload
[ -f ] [ -s trimSize ] -t Type -l Local_file -r Remote_folder
.SH DESCRIPTION

Rpload may be used to convert local Pine configuration files or address
books into remote configurations or address books.
It is intended to be used by system administrators.
Regular users should normally use the facilities provided within Pine.
.LP
Local_file will usually be a user's pine configuration file, and
Remote_folder is the IMAP folder which will be used
(with the help of Pine's \fB-p\fR, \fB-P\fR, and \fB-x\fR commands or
PINECONF, PINERC, and PINERCEX environment variables)
as the user's remote configuration folder.
A copy of Local_file will be placed in the folder with the correct header
lines to satisfy Pine.
.IP \fB-f\fR 20
Force the load even if the remote folder is in the wrong format.
This will \fBdelete\fR the contents of the folder so use it carefully.
.IP \fB-s\fR\ \fBtrimSize\fR 20
If the number of messages in the remote folder is more than one plus
trimsize (one is for the header message), then messages 2, 3, and so on
will be deleted until there are only one plus trimsize messages left.
If this option is not set no trimming will be done.
.IP \fB-t\fR\ \fBType\fR 20
The possible Types are \fBpinerc\fR, \fBabook\fR, and \fBsig\fR.
(Sig is mostly obsolete. Literal signatures contained within the remote
pinerc should be used instead.)
.IP \fB-l\fR\ \fBLocal_file\fR 20
The file on this system that is to be copied.
.IP \fB-r\fR\ \fBRemote_folder\fR 20
A remote folder name to be copied to.
See the Pine documentation for the syntax of a remote folder name.
One example is
.br
{my.imap.server}remote_pinerc.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if all goes well, -1 otherwise.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Rpdump(1).
.LP
Copyright 1989-2005 by the University of Washington.
Pine and Pico are trademarks of the University of Washington.

$Date: 2005-01-14 12:44:47 -0800 (Fri, 14 Jan 2005) $
